'\"t
.\" The first line of this file must contain the '"[e][r][t][v] line
.\" to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
.\" vim: set filetype=nroff :
.\"
.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\"######################################################################
.\"#									#
.\"#			   Copyright (C)  2004				#
.\"#	     			Internet2				#
.\"#			   All Rights Reserved				#
.\"#									#
.\"######################################################################
.\"
.\"	File:		powstream.1
.\"
.\"	Author:		Jeff Boote
.\"			Internet2
.\"
.\"	Date:		Sun Dec  3 09:16:52 MST 2006
.\"
.\"	Description:	
.\"
.TH powstream 1 "$Date$"
.SH NAME
powstream \- Client daemon application for continuous one-way latency tests.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B powstream 
[\fIoptions\fR] testpeer [server]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpowstream\fR is a command line client daemon application that is used to
initiate a continuous stream of one-way latency tests from the
.I testpeer
to the client host.
.PP
Round-trip latency measurements (ping) are
an accepted technique to look for network problems; one-way measurements
have the potential to be even more useful. With round-trip measurements,
it is difficult to isolate the direction in which congestion is experienced.
Traffic is often asymmetric with many sites being either primarily producers
or consumers of data. One-way measurements allow more informative
measurements. It is much easier to isolate the effects of traffic on
specific parts of a network.
.PP
.B powstream
creates a continuous stream of one-way packet samples by stitching together
multiple
.B OWAMP
test sessions. It was designed to allow for continuous monitoring of
one-way latencies. To create a continuous stream of packets,
.B powstream
actually opens two control sockets to the server and, effectively,
double-buffers
.B OWAMP
test sessions. The start-time of each subsequent session is defined by
the computed send time of the last packet in the previous session.
.PP
There are special considerations for this type of
application that do not exist for the \fBowping\fR application.
Specifically, it is important to reduce the amount of control communication
that occurs to minimize any session resets that could occur due to breakdowns
in control communication. (We really want to see periods of time where
the network is broken.) Therefore, it is important to create fairly long
.B OWAMP
test sessions. On the other hand, it is nice to get fairly immediate feedback
if there is packet loss. To facilitate this,
.B powstream
can summarize data for smaller time periods than the actual test session
periods it uses. The \fI\-N\fR option is used to indicate how many packet
records should be in these smaller sub-session files while
the \fI\-c\fR option is used
to indicate how many packet records should be in the complete
session.
.PP
.B powstream
outputs a data file and a summary file for each time period defined by
the \fI\-c\fR option. The files will be placed in the directory
indicated by the \fI\-d\fR option. Additionally,
.B powstream
will output a summary file for each time period defined
by the \fI\-N\fR option. The smaller summary sub-session files should be
thought of as preliminary data.
The later, larger complete session files will have additional information
available to determine the validity of the data. Specifically the larger file
is created after the Stop-Sessions message has been received from
the sender host over the control socket. This message includes information about
any packet records that the sender did not send; therefore, the preliminary
data could show packet loss when, in reality, the sending process never sent
the expected packets. The \fI\-n\fR option may be applied to make powstream
also output data files for each sub-session defined by \fI\-N\fR. If set \fI\-n\fR
may cause results not to take into account unsent packets.
.PP
.B powstream
saves data files and summary files for each session in the current directory,
or the directory specified by the \fI\-d\fR option. The filesnames are in
the format:
.RS
.IP ${START_TIME}_${END_TIME}.${FILETYPE}

.RE
.I STARTTIME
and
.I ENDTIME
are the start and end timestamps for the session or sub-session. The
timestamps are ASCII representation of 64 bit integers with the
high-order 32 bits representing the number of seconds since
Jan 1, 1900 and the low-order 32 bits representing fractional seconds.
The
.I FILETYPE
is \fIowp\fR for raw data files and \fIsum\fR for textual summary
files.
.PP
.B powstream
works by
contacting an \fBowampd\fR daemon on the remote peer host.
\fBowampd\fR manages the resources of the host on which it runs.
.PP
.I testpeer
can be specified using rfc2396 and rfc2732 syntax for both host and
port specification:
.TP
.I node:port
.br
IPv4 syntax where node is either a DNS name or a numeric host address string
consisting of a dotted decimal IPv4 address. The \fI\:port\fR is an optional
specifier to contact servers running on a non-default port and
can be left off in most cases.
This syntax also works for IPv6 addresses specified using DNS names.
.TP
.I [node]:port
IPv6 syntax where node is specified using a numeric IPv6 host address
string. The []'s are required only if the optional \fI\:port\fR port
specifier is used.
.PP
.I server
is an optional argument that indicates the \fBOWAMP\fR server address
if it is different from the \fItestpeer\fR. This is mostly useful in
the case of hosts with more than one network interface where the
\fBOWAMP\fR server is not listening on the interface that you want to test.
The \fIserver\fR can be specified using the same syntax as the \fItestpeer\fR.
\.
.PP
The \fBpowstream\fR client-daemon is used to request the intensity of
the test.
Specifically, the parameters allow the user to select the mean packet interval
for a pseudo-exponential distribution, the packet size, and the loss
timeout.
.PP
With no options specified, \fBpowstream\fR will perform tests of 300
packets each at a rate of approximately 1 packet every 0.1
seconds from the \fItestpeer\fR. With no options specified, the test sessions
will not be subdivided to provide intermediate results.
.PP
.B powstream
produces data in two formats: raw owamp data files and summary statistics.
The data files are the same binary format saved from \fBowping\fR
and can be parsed using \fBowstats\fR. The summary files are identical to the
.I \-M
output format from \fBowstats\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
.br
Print a usage message and exit.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.SS Test Configuration Options:
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIcount\fR
.br
Number of test packets to send in each test session.
.RS
.IP Default:
300
.RE
.TP
\fB\-E\fR \fIenddelay\fR
.br
Amount of time for a sender to wait after session completion (last packet
send-time plus \fItimeout\fR) before sending the stop sessions message.

This is important if the sender clock is running ahead of the receiver clock.

A session is complete \fItimeout\fR after the send time of the final packet.
If the sender clock is ahead of the receiver clock, the sender will declare
the session complete before the receiver. The receiver
is only allowed to retain records for the packets that were sent at least
\fItimeout\fR before it receives the stop sessions message from
the sender. Therefore, if the sender clock is running ahead of the receiver
clock, the receiver will be forced to delete some number of the final
packets from the session.

This parameter directs the sender to wait \fIenddelay\fR after
session completion allowing the receiver clock to be essentially \fIenddelay\fR
later than the sender clock and still retain full sessions.
.RS
.IP Default:
1.0 (seconds)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fImeanwait\fR
.br
.I meanwait
indicates the average time to wait between sending packets.
.B powstream
uses an exponentially distributed
pseudo-random distribution with a mean interval about the \fIvalue\fR given.
The intent of this is to negate periodicity effects.
.RS
.IP Default:
0.1 (seconds)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-L\fR \fItimeout\fR
.br
Amount of time to wait for a packet to be received before declaring it
lost. As such, it is also the amount of time the test session has to
stay active after the last packet is sent to be able to count duplicate
packets. I.e., add this number to the duration of your session to determine
how long to expect a test session to take.

For the \fBOWAMP\fR results to be
statistically relevant the \fItimeout\fR option should be specified
the same for comparable sessions.
.RS
.IP Default:
10 seconds
.RE
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsize\fR
.br
Size of the padding to add to each minimally-sized test packet. The minimal
size for a test packet in \fIopen\fR mode is 14 bytes. The minimal size
for a test packet in \fIauthenticated\fR or \fIencrypted\fR mode is 32 bytes.
.RS
.IP Default:
0 (bytes)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
.br
Indicates that \fBpowstream\fR should set up sender-side \fBOWAMP\fR
test sessions instead of the default receiver-side sessions.
This mode of operation is more problematic because intermediate summary
data must be fetched from the remote server on regular intervals using
an additional socket connection instead of just summarizing portions
of a local data file.
.RS
.IP Default:
unset
.RE
.TP
\fB\-z\fR \fIdelayStart\fR
.br
Time to wait before starting the test. \fBpowstream\fR waits
approximately 10 seconds before starting the first test by default. The
.I delayStart
value is added to this amount.
.RS
.IP Default:
0
.RE
.SS Connection/Authentication Options:
.TP
\fB\-A\fR \fIauthmode\fB
.br
Specify the authentication modes the client is willing to use for
communication. \fIauthmode\fR should be set as a character string with
any or all of the characters "AEO". The modes are:
.RS
.IP \fBA\fR
[\fBA\fR]uthenticated. This mode encrypts the control connection and
digitally signs part of each test packet.
.IP \fBE\fR
[\fBE\fR]ncrypted. This mode encrypts the control connection and
encrypts each test packet in full. This mode forces an encryption step
between the fetching of a timestamp and when the packet is sent. This
adds more computational delay to the time reported by \fBOWAMP\fR for each
packet.
.IP \fBO\fR
[\fBO\fR]pen. No encryption of any kind is done.
.PP
The client can specify all the modes with which it is willing to communicate.
The most strict mode that both the \fBOWAMP\fR server and the \fBOWAMP\fR
client are willing to use
will be selected. Authenticated and Encrypted modes require a "shared secret"
in the form of a pass-phrase that is used to generate the AES and HMAC-SHA1
session keys.
.IP Default:
"AEO"
.RE
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIpfsfile\fR
.br
Indicates that \fBpowstream\fR should use the pass-phrase in \fIpfsfile\fR for
\fIusername\fR to derive the symmetric AES key used for encryption.
\fIusername\fR must have a valid entry in \fIpfsfile\fR.
\fIpfsfile\fR can be generated as described in the pfstore(1) manual
page.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset. (If the \fB\-u\fR option was specified without the \fB-k\fR, the
user will be prompted for a \fIpass-phrase\fR.)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIsrcaddr\fR
.br
Bind the local address of the client socket to \fIsrcaddr\fR. \fIsrcaddr\fR
can be specified using a DNS name or using standard textual notations for
the IP addresses. (IPv6 addresses are, of course, supported.)
.RS
.IP Default:
Unspecified (wild-card address selection)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-B\fR \fIinterface\fR
.br
Bind the client sockets to the network interface \fIinterface\fR with
SO_BINDTODEVICE.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unspecified (sockets not bound to a particular interface).
.RE
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIusername\fR
.br
Specify the username that is used to identify the shared secret (pass-phrase)
used to derive the AES and HMAC-SHA1 session keys for
authenticated and encrypted modes. If the \fB\-k\fR option is specified,
the pass-phrase is retrieved from the \fIpfsfile\fR
otherwise \fBpowstream\fR prompts
the user for a pass-phrase.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset
.RE
.SS Output Options:
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIbucket_width\fR
.br
To reasonably compute the delay summary statistics, \fBpowstream\fR creates
a histogram of the delays. (This can be used to compute percentiles of
delay, such as median.) The
.I bucket_width
indicates the resolution of the bins in the histogram. This value
is specified using a floating point value and the units are seconds.

The histogram is presented within the summary statistics file.
.RS
.IP Default:
0.0001 (100 usecs)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIdir\fR
.br
.I dir
indicates the directory in which to save all raw \fIowp\fR data files and all
textual summary data files.
.RS
.IP Default:
(current working directory)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIfacility\fR
.br
.I facility
indicates the syslog facility to which
.B powstream
should send all error messages.
.RS
.IP Default:
LOG_USER
.RE
.TP
\fB\-N\fR \fIcount\fR
.br
Number of test packets to put in sub-session summary files.

.B powstream
can use large session durations to minimize control communication during
execution. This option is used to make
.B powstream
output sub-session summary files at shorter periods. The data should be
considered preliminary because it is being generated before the actual
end of the test session. The
.B OWAMP
control protocol shares information from the sending process to the
receiver about any packets it skipped sending when the test session
ends. Because this data is being generated before the session actually
ends, any packets the sending process did not get a chance to send will
show up as lost packet records in these files.

This is the trade-off for getting more immediate access to the data.

If this option is not set, then sub-session summary files will
not be produced.

This value must be a divisor of the value specified for the \fI\-c\fR
option.
.RS
.IP Default:
unset
.RE
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
.br
Enable output of sub-session data files (in addition to summary files).
This option requires \fI\-N\fR to be set. Note that this option will
disable output of the additional full data set summary file and full data
file which normally is output when only \fI\-N\fR is set.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
.br
Print the names of data files and summary statistic files to STDOUT
when they are completed.
.RS
.IP Default:
unset
.RE
.TP
\fB\-R\fR
.br
Suppress printing error messages to STDERR. They will still be sent
to syslog.
.RS
.IP Default:
unset (errors print to STDERR and syslog)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
.br
Print more verbose information in error messages.
.RS
.IP Default:
unset
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TS
lb lb
_ _
li l .
OWAMP Environment Variable	Description

OWAMP_DEBUG_TIMEOFFSET	Offset time by this amount (float)
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBpowstream somehost.com\fR
.IP
Contact somehost.com and request ongoing tests with a sending rate
of a packet approximately every 0.1 seconds, with 300 packets per
session. (Each session will last about 30 seconds.) Save the data and summary
files in the current directory.
.LP
\fBpowstream -L 10 -i 1 -c 10800 -N 30 -d datadir -p somehost.com\fR
.IP
Contact somehost.com and request ongoing tests. Use a timeout
duration of 10 seconds. Tests will have a sending rate
of a packet approximately every 1 second, with 10800 packets per
complete session. (Each session will last about 3 hours.) Create sub-session
summary statistic files, as well, with 30 packets per
sub-session. (Each sub-session will provide a sample period of about
30 seconds.) Save the data and summary files in the current directory
and print each filename as it is produced.
.SH SEE ALSO
owampd(8), owping(1), owstats(1), owfetch(1) and the
\%http://e2epi.internet2.edu/owamp/ web site.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This material is based, in part, on work supported by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) under Grant No. ANI-0314723. Any opinions, findings, and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF.
