.\" The first line of this file must contain the '"[e][r][t][v] line
.\" to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
.\" vim: set filetype=nroff :
.\"
.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\"######################################################################
.\"#									#
.\"#			   Copyright (C)  2006				#
.\"#	     			Internet2				#
.\"#			   All Rights Reserved				#
.\"#									#
.\"######################################################################
.\"
.\"	File:		owampd.pfs.man
.\"
.\"	Author:		Jeff Boote
.\"			Internet2
.\"
.\"	Date:		Sun Nov  5 14:53:10 MST 2006
.\"
.\"	Description:	
.\"
.TH owampd.pfs 5 "$Date$"
.SH NAME
owampd.pfs \- One-way latency server pass-phrase store
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBowampd.pfs\fR file is used to hold the identity/pass-phrase pairs
needed for \fBowampd\fR to authenticate users. The format of this file
is described in the pfstore(1) manual page. The location of this
file is controlled by the \fB\-c\fR option to \fBowampd\fR.
.PP
\fBowampd\fR uses symmetric AES keys for authentication. These keys
are derived from a shared secret (the pass-phrase) using the PBKDF2
algorithm (\fBRFC 2898\fR) with an HMAC-SHA1 as the pseudorandom
function.
.PP
Therefore, the
\fBowping\fR client must have access to the exact same pass-phrase
that the \fBowampd\fR server uses. Both the client and the server
need to derive the same AES key for authentication
to work.  It is important that the system administrator and end user
ensure the pass-phrase is not compromised.
.PP
If the \fBowping\fR client is able to authenticate using the identity and
derived AES key, \fBowampd\fR will use the directives found in the
\fBowampd.limits\fR file to map policy restrictions for this connection.
.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
The pass-phrases in the \fBowampd.pfs\fR file are not encrypted in any way.
(They are simply hex encoded.) The
security of these pass-phrases are completely dependent upon the security
of the filesystem and the discretion of the system administrator.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
\fBIdentity\fR names are restricted to 80 characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
pfstore(1), owping(1), owampd(8), owampd.limits(5),
and the \%http://e2epi.internet2.edu/owamp/ web site.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This material is based in part on work supported by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) under Grant No. ANI-0314723. Any opinions, findings and
conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the NSF.
