." ex: set tabstop=4 ai expandtab softtabstop=4 shiftwidth=4:
." -*- mode: c-basic-indent: 4; tab-width: 4; indent-tabs-mode: nil -*-
." The first line of this file must contain the '"[e][r][t][v] line
." to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
." vim: set filetype=nroff :
."
."    $Id$
."
."######################################################################
."#                                                                    #
."#                        Copyright (C)  2007                         #
."#                            Internet2                               #
."#                        All Rights Reserved                         #
."#                                                                    #
."######################################################################
."
."    File:        owping_out_opts.man
."
."    Author:      Jeff W. Boote
."                 Internet2
."
."    Date:        Sat Feb 24 04:03:02 MST 2007
."
."    Description:    
."      This file is included into owping.1, owfetch.1, owstats.1 and
."      is not useful as a man-page on its own.
."
.SH Output Options:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fIpercentile_list\fR
.br
.I percentile_list
indicates the list of quantiles to be reported out in addition to
median. This is done by specifying a list of \fIpercentiles\fR in
a comma separated string (spaces are not allowed). Each \fIpercentile\fR
is indicated by a floating point value between 0.0 and 100.0.

This value is only used if reporting summary statistics.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIbucket_width\fR
.br
A histogram of delays is created to compute the summary statistics.
(This is used to compute percentiles of delay such as median.) The
.I bucket_width
indicates the resolution of the bins in the histogram. This value
is specified using a floating point value and the units are seconds.

Because a histogram to compute the median (and
other percentiles of delay) the results can be misleading if the
.I bucket_width
is not appropriate. For example, if all of the delays in the sample are
smaller than the value of
.I bucket_width
then the median will be reported as
.I bucket_width,
a value that is greater than the maximum delay in the sample. To avoid this,
.I bucket_width
should be picked to be smaller than (max - min). The default value
was selected to be reasonable for most real network paths, it is not
appropriate for tests to the localhost however.

This value is only used if reporting summary statistics.
.RS
.IP Default:
0.0001 (100 usecs)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIdir\fR
.br
.I dir
indicates the directory in which to save summary files if the \fI\-p\fR
option is used.
.RS
.IP Default:
(current working directory)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
.br
Print summary information in a more computer pars-able format. Specifically,
values are printed out in a key/value style. Units are seconds for all values.

The \fI\-M\fR option is ignored if \fI\-Q\fR is set.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-N\fR \fIcount\fR
.br
Number of test packets to put in sub-session summaries when computing
statistics on owamp session data. 

This option is used to break down the summary statistics in smaller
sample sizes than a complete owp file. This is useful when breaking
up very long running sessions.

This option is only used for statistical
output, and therefore has no effect on the \fB\-R\fR output mode.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset. (complete files are treated as the sample size)
.RE
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIunits\fR
.br
.I units
indicates what units time values should be reported in. \fIunits\fR is
specified using a single character specifying the units wanted.
.RS
.PP
The available units are:
.br
.TS
li l .
\'n\'	nanoseconds (ns)
\'u\'	microseconds (us)
\'m\'	milliseconds (ms)
\'s\'	seconds (s)
.TE
.PP
This is only used for the human-readable summary statistics and
the \fB\-v\fR mode of
reporting individual records. In particular, it is not used for the
\fB\-R\fR or \fB\-M\fR output modes.
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
.br
Save output summary information into files instead of printing it to
STDOUT. Also, print the names of the files to STDOUT. The files will
be saved in the directory specified by the
.I \-d
option.

The summary filenames are in the format:
.br

${START_TIME}_${END_TIME}.${FILETYPE}

.I STARTTIME
and
.I ENDTIME
are the start and end timestamps for the session or sub-session. The
timestamps are ASCII representation of 64 bit integers with the
high-order 32 bits representing the number of seconds since
Jan 1, 1900 and the low-order 32 bits representing fractional seconds.
The
.I FILETYPE
is \fIsum\fR for \fI\-M\fR summary files,
and \fItxt\fR for the default human-readable summary information.

This option is ignored if the \fI\-R\fR option is specified.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR
.br
Suppress the printing of all summary statistics and human-readable individual
delays (\fI\-v\fR).
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-R\fR
.br
Print individual packet records one per line in the raw format:
.RS
.PP
\fISEQNO SENDTIME SSYNC SERR RECVTIME RSYNC RERR TTL\fR
.br
.TS
li l .
SEQNO	Sequence number.
SENDTIME	Send timestamp.
SSYNC	Sending system synchronized (0 or 1).
SERR	Estimate of SENDTIME error.
RECVTIME	Receive timestamp.
RSYNC	Receiving system synchronized (0 or 1).
RERR	Estimate of RECVTIME error.
TTL	TTL IP field.
.TE
.PP
The timestamps are ASCII representation of 64 bit integers with the
high-order 32 bits representing the number of seconds since Jan 1, 1900
and the low-order 32 bits representing fractional seconds.
Lost packet records are indicated with a RECVTIME of 0 (zero).
The sequence
number is simply an integer. The error estimates are printed as floating-point
numbers using scientific notation. TTL is the IP field from the packet.
The TTL in sending packets should be initialized to 255, so the number of
hops the packet traversed can be computed. If the receiving host is not
able to determine the TTL field, this will be reported as 255. (Some
socket API's do not expose the TTL field.)
.PP
The \fI\-R\fR option implies \fI\-Q\fR.
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
.br
Print delays for individual packet records. This option is disabled by
the \fI\-Q\fR and \fI\-R\fR options.
.RS
.IP Default:
Unset.
.RE
